[Music]
nine facts we all should finally stop
believing there are some so-called facts
that we believe only because we've heard
them so many times and everybody else
believes them too I bet you're convinced
that milk is good for your bones or that
Mount Everest is the tallest mountain in
the world before we reveal the actual
truth here's one fact that's absolutely
the real deal if you click that
subscribe button and ring the little
notification bell right beside it you'll
always stay on top of the fun and
informative videos coming out every
single day on the bright side of life
now let's kick this list off starting at
number 9 the placebo effect only works
on humans in case you've never heard of
this strange if fascinating phenomenon
the placebo effect is basically when a
person's health condition starts to
improve simply because they believe
they've been receiving treatment or
medicine when in fact they haven't
sounds sort of like cheating people I
know but it's not that at all the fact
that you can give the human body what's
basically a pill full of sugary or salty
water and it'll kickstart actual healing
processes is downright amazing what's
even more surprising is that the placebo
effect probably works on pets too for
example if a dog is sick and its owner
gives it a sugar or vitamin pill the
dog's body responds well this was proven
by a team of scientists from the College
of Veterinary Medicine at North Carolina
State University they tested the placebo
effect on dogs that suffer from seizures
number eight milk is useful for our
bones
ads claims a dairy product are a great
source of calcium which is really
important for our bones but it's milk in
particular that we've been told time and
time again since childhood keeps our
bones strong and healthy
whenever we hear the word calcium the
first thing that comes to mind is milk
right but did you know that the calcium
contained in milk doesn't prevent us
from getting bone fractures scientists
from Harvard University have found that
people from countries that don't usually
consume dairy products actually suffer
from fractures less than those who
consume such products regularly so
there's no sense in drinking large
amounts of milk if you want to
strengthen your bones you can also get
calcium from sardines salmon beans
almonds and fix number seven chocolate
causes acne a lot of people don't eat
chocolate because they're afraid it'll
cause their skin to break out in pimples
well hold back no more because this
simply isn't true dr. james ii fulton
jr. and several other dermatologists
conducted a study on the supposed
connection between chocolate and acne
they naturally gave 65 acne-prone test
subjects chocolate bars that contain ten
times more cocoa than a typical bar of
chocolate what they found was that
chocolate isn't harmful to our skin and
doesn't affect it whatsoever los
angeles-based dermatologist dr. Ava sham
ban completely agrees and even goes on
to say that there's very little evidence
to back up the claim that eating
chocolate makes you break out so there
you go the experts have spoken go ahead
and grab a chocolate bar because you
don't have to worry about acne breakouts
however it's still best to eat chocolate
in moderation to avoid gaining weight
speaking of weight gain were all led to
believe that number six if you run you
have to run every single day in a thirty
year research project scientists from
Birmingham University found that running
every day can be completely useless for
those looking to stay fed and even
potentially detrimental to your health
too much endurance training may have an
adverse effect on a person's well-being
because it pushes the body too much
another study noticed plaque buildup in
the arteries of marathon runners that
may cause decreased blood circulation
eventually leading to serious heart
problems if you want to stay fit and
enjoy doing it by running it's
recommended to jog instead and only two
to three times a week
not every day senior cardiac nurse
Maureen Talbott at the British Heart
Foundation says that light and moderate
jogging is more benefit
an undertaking strenuous running number
five Mount Everest is the tallest
mountain in the world Alpine is from
around the globe have attempted to
conquer the supposed tallest mountain in
the world and some have actually
succeeded and sure if we're talking
about mountains that are located above
sea level then Everest is the biggest
baddest kid on the block but if we
consider mountains in general even those
that begin from under the sea
Everest isn't as large and in charge as
you'd think the new number one spot
would go to Mauna Kea a volcano located
in Hawaii it has an altitude of 13,000
796 feet above sea level but its base is
about 19,000 700 feet below the water
surface that gives mount akia a base to
peak height of about 30 3,500 feet which
does indeed outshine Everest height of
29,029 feet number for a black hole is
well a hole Albert Einstein speculated
about the existence of black holes way
back in 1916 with his famous general
theory of relativity however the one who
coined the term and proved in 1971 that
these things really do exist was
American theoretical physicist dr. John
Wheeler but are they actually holes
well nASA says no they aren't in fact
these are just space objects where
gravity is so strong that even light
can't escape it black holes are
practically invisible and can't be seen
with the naked eye however astronomers
locate them with the help of super
advanced space telescopes by seeing how
stars that are close to black holes act
differently than other stars number
three you're safe inside a car during a
lightning storm there's a belief that
during a lightning storm you're safe
inside a car because it's grounded by
rubber tires while it is true that
rubber is really effective at insulating
against electricity that doesn't mean
you're untouchable in your car during
lightning this is absolutely a myth your
car may be a really good place to hide
but only because it's made from metal
and that metal body will only be a
any use if all the doors and windows are
closed you see when a bolt of lightning
hits the top of a car the current flows
outside of the car and runs into the
ground beneath so it's not the rubber
tires but the cars metallic shell that
can protect you during lightning storms
number two
the Sahara is the largest desert in the
world ask any person what the largest
desert in the world is and they'll tell
you duh the Sahara
but little do they know that this really
isn't true we think of a desert we
usually imagine a lifeless extremely hot
area covered in sand but by definition a
desert is a landscape that receives very
little precipitation in this case
Antarctica with an area of 5.5 million
square miles is technically the largest
desert in the world
the Sahara at 3 and 1/2 million square
miles takes third place in case you're
wondering
there are actually four types of deserts
polar desert like Antarctica and the
Arctic north subtropical deserts this is
the familiar Sahara in northern Africa
and the Arabian in the Arabian Peninsula
cold wintery deserts for example the
Gobi in China and Mongolia as well as
the Colorado Plateau in the US cool
coastal deserts like the Atacama in
Chile and the Namibian southern Africa
number one Mars is red ah the red planet
in ancient times the Romans named it
after their God of War Mars because of
its bloody color
the ancient Egyptians coined it hair -
hair which means porous the red ancient
chinese astronomers dubbed it the fire
star so obviously this place is as red
as it gets right well it wasn't until
the 1970s when the truth about Mars was
finally revealed this was when NASA's
Viking 1 Lander became the first
spacecraft to touchdown on the fourth
planet from the Sun to take a few
snapshots initial images reveal that
there's a blue sky not a pinkish red one
the image is taken by the Viking 1
Lander make the planet look redder than
it actually is
today NASA admits that some parts of
Mars are actually blue and gray which of
these not so factual facts surprised you
the most did you already know that any
of them weren't true
tell us in the comments below if you
learn something new from this video then
give it a like and share it with your
friends don't forget to subscribe and
join the family here on the bright side
of life
you